Containers versus virtual machines (VMs)

    Without getting too deep, a VM is an entire operating system with its own kernel, hardware drivers, programs, and applications. Spinning up a VM only to isolate a single application is a lot of overhead.

    A container is simply an isolated process with all of the files it needs to run. If you run multiple containers, they all share the same kernel, allowing you to run more applications on less infrastructure.

Images
    That's where container images come in. A container image is a standardized package that includes all of the files, binaries, libraries, and configurations to run a container.

Registry

    Now that you know what a container image is and how it works, you might wonder - where do you store these images?

    Well, you can store your container images on your computer system, but what if you want to share them with your friends or use them on another machine? That's where the image registry comes in.

    An image registry is a centralized location for storing and sharing your container images. It can be either public or private. Docker Hub is a public registry that anyone can use and is the default registry.

Camadas

    APP SOURCE > APP DEPENDENCIES > APP REQUIREMENTS > PYTHON AND PIP > DEBIAN BASE

Cache

    When you run the docker build command to create a new image, Docker executes each instruction in your Dockerfile, creating a layer for each command and in the order specified. For each instruction, Docker checks whether it can reuse the instruction from a previous build. If it finds that you've already executed a similar instruction before, Docker doesn't need to redo it. Instead, it’ll use the cached result. This way, your build process becomes faster and more efficient, saving you valuable time and resources.

Multi-stage build 

    # Stage 1: Build Environment
    FROM builder-image AS build-stage 
    # Install build tools (e.g., Maven, Gradle)
    # Copy source code
    # Build commands (e.g., compile, package)

    # Stage 2: Runtime environment
    FROM runtime-image AS final-stage  
    #  Copy application artifacts from the build stage (e.g., JAR file)
    COPY --from=build-stage /path/in/build/stage /path/to/place/in/final/stage
    # Define runtime configuration (e.g., CMD, ENTRYPOINT) 

Dicas

    🛠️ O que você PODE e NÃO PODE fazerO que FAZER (Best Practices)O que EVITAR (Anti-patterns)Um processo por container: Mantenha a responsabilidade única 🧩.Instalar SSH: Use docker exec para acessar o container.Usar .dockerignore: Evite enviar node_modules ou .git para o contexto do Docker 🚫.Armazenar dados dentro do container: Containers são efêmeros; use Volumes.Multistage Build: Usar uma imagem para compilar e outra (menor) para rodar.Colocar senhas no Dockerfile: Use variáveis de ambiente ou Secrets 🔑.
